Billy Elliot was a great movie that encompassed all the major elements of a hit movie. Billy Elliot is the story of an 11-year old boy who lives in a small mining village with his dad, older brother and grandma. 
Both his father and brother work in the mines, but are currently on strike. Billy’s dad has forced him to take boxing lessons for years, but Billy is not into it. 
Instead, when a small ballet studio happens to move into their gym, he joins without his family’s consent. Eventually, his family finds out about him dropping boxing for ballet and they get mad. 
With help of Mrs. Wilkinson, his ballet teacher, Billy practices and gets the opportunity to audition for the Royal Ballet School. The movie closes with him becoming a famous dancer giving a superb performance. 
The movie follows the genre of drama but encompasses a little comedy and the characteristics of a musical. 
It is primarily drama because the fil revolves around the realistic characteristics of a son and dad’s emotional dealings. 
Billy’s new found love for ballet conflicts with his dad and brothers dream of becoming a boxer. 
The plot follows Billy’s path to overcoming his problems with his family and getting the right support and pursuing his ballet. 
The drama gave a clear theme/message that if anyone can realize their goal or ambition, through perseverance and being optimistic, they can make anything work. 
In Billy’s case, he found an interest in ballet and he followed it even if it meant rebelling against his dad and brother. 
His dad thought that ballet was “All right for your Nana, for girls. No, not for lads, Billy. Lads do football... or boxing... or wrestling. Not friggin' ballet”. 
It took the better part of the movie for Billy to convince his dad to do ballet through his persistence and perseverance. 
This movie and its theme would be a great aid for people beginning to decide what they want to do in their life. The intended audience would most likely be 12 year olds and up. 
Mid-teens who see this movie, would realize how much determination and effort it takes in order to achieve one’s dreams. This would also motivate them to go out and pursue their passion. 
12 year olds are at the right age to be able to withstand some of the cussing and foul language in the movie. Other than this, the movie is very clean and suitable for younger audiences. 
Scene Analysis (Climax):
The scene where Billy dances his heart out for his dad is not only the climax, but is also the best scene in the film. In this scene, Billy’s dad finds him dancing with Michael. 
This scene is where the entire story line changes as Billy has now secured the support of his dad. 
The dad went from being very sexist and forceful father who just wanted Billy to box, to being the dad who discovers his sons love for dance. 
This is the first time in the movie that the soft side of the dad surfaces and it drastically changes the movie. 
Because of Billy’s rebellious but passionate act, the dad decides to support his son and help him achieve his dream. 
His dad realized that he was only using Billy to pursue dreams that he never had accomplished as he tells his elder son, “He could be star for all we know. We don’t know how far we will go”! 
On the other hand, Billy goes from being an obedient 11 year old boy, to a kid who rebels against his dad to prove he has a passion for something real. 
If he had not done this, the plot would never have taken a turn and he never could have achieved his dreams. 
A side character that developed was Michael as he is coming to terms with his gender. 
The mood and setting of the scene excellent, and did a great job of getting a somewhat somber but uplifting feeling to it.  
The music was very slow at the start when Billy and Michael were together. As Billy’s dad entered, the music gradually got louder as the suspense built up. 
It got to its righteous volume when Billy started his rebellious dance as this was a climactic point so it was loud and strong. 
The lighting played a key role especially in this scene as it was somewhat cloudy and the lights were behind the camera so it gave a groovy atmosphere. 
When there was suspense between Billy’s dad and him, it gave a darker atmosphere but when he started dancing, the whole mood was uplifted although nothing had changed. 
The camera angles played a minor role as they were mostly doing side 180° side views. When he was dancing, the camera panned to show his graceful moves and gave a good view of his surroundings. 
This movie was filled with twists and turns and it really showed me how much devotion, work and perseverance it takes to achieve a goal. Nothing comes by sitting around. 
One needs to work nonstop and believe in himself. This relates to one of my all-time favorite quotes by Confucius- “Choose a job you love and you will never have to work a day in your life”. 
Watching this movie has motivated me and given me hope for my future.
